## Introduction

In December 2019, COVID-19 coronavirus was first identified in the Wuhan
region of China, By March 11 2020, the 50 US states closed down many
public gathering events and businesses as policy measures to combat the
spread of the virus. This report uses data from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, Kaiser Family Foundation, Raifman J et al 2020
paper of COVIS-19 state policy database and Google Covid-19 Community
Mobility Report. These datasets used here were last updated in Oct,
2020.

Our research question: Is there a causal relationship between young
adults proportion to the spread of COVID-19 cases? This research
question is motivated by recent reports and the substantial news
claiming that young adults play a major role in spreading the COVID-19
virus and contributing to increasing cases.  
A recent [report from the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention](https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6939e1.htm)
indicates that “During June–August 2020, COVID-19 incidence was highest
in persons aged 20–29 years.”Although the report is definitive evidence
of young adults recently reporting the most infections, what we don’t
know is how a state’s young adult population relates to the cases in the
entire state’s population. Similarly, the [World Health Organization
made a
statement](https://www.who.int/westernpacific/news/speeches/detail/virtual-press-conference-on-covid-19-in-the-western-pacific)
in August saying, “people in their 20s, 30s and 40s are increasingly
driving COVID-19’s spread.”  
Our research can help build a stronger understanding of this
relationship which is critical to developing useful health policies at
the state level. The outcome could suggest the possibility of policies
that target the young adult demographics to help fight the spread of
COVID-19 virus. It is also important as another means of informing young
adults of what their role in COVID-19 transmission really is; however,
this report will not by any means be a direct measure of that role. In
our investigation we expect to find that the estimate for the number of
cases per 100,000 conditioned on the proportion of young adults
consistent through multiple model specifications. In our models, we will
explore the possibility of other features or policies that may mitigate
or amplify the effect of differing young adult population percentages on
cases.
